# React.js Starter App

## Concept

This project shows some basic usage of React.js features, including:

- components written as Javascript functions and JSX
- passing arguments (a.k.a props) to components
- maintaing state (i.e. internal data fields) within a component
- fetching data from an API and injecting it into a component
- creating shared global navigation links across all screens
- linking from one component to another using `react-router-dom`
- passing params to components in the URL
- simple login functionality where a protected page that is only shown to logged-in users
- use of a `.gitignore` file to exclude 3rd-party code and autogenerated files from version control tracking
- use of a `package.json` with npm to track dependencies and streamline installation.

Many of the features of React exhibited in this project are explained at a high level in this [prepared lecture presentation](https://nyu-computer-science.github.io/software-engineering/react-intro/).

## Intentional exclusions

There are some common practices that we have not included here, since we believe they are distraction's from a beginner's ability to master React's code patterns.

- use of a state manager, such as Redux or Mobx
- use of a front-end framework, such as Bootstrap or Material Design
- use of a rendering engine, such as Handlebars or Pug
- use of a custom back-end API

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm install`

Installs all the dependencies listed in the `package.json` configuration file.
This is necessary before running the app, since the 3rd-party dependency code is excluded from version control by the `.gitignore` git settings file.

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br />
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br />
You will also see any lint errors in the console.
